okay
i mean
one gets the sense that most kings would
like to be vampires because they're so
obsessed with death and never dying
um
i actually
read a theory once which impressed me a
great deal which said that um
dracula the vampire story in general is
really about the failure of the french
revolution and you know it sounds
completely stupid when when you say it
but it actually makes a certain kind of
sense the idea is that
well you know the french revolution was
supposed to have killed off all those
blood-sucking aristocrats who live in
castles
and instead to substitute a domain of
liberty
equality fraternity and enlightened
commercial self-interest
but for some reason the count refuses to
stay dead you know he killed him but he
keeps coming back and why does he keep
coming back well obviously because
we want him for some reason i mean why
else would we keep going to these movies
right um the very fact that we're
watching this shows that there is
something in us which is fascinated by
the idea of a blood-sucking aristocrat
right on that we desire him we desire to
see and we desire to know more about it
and um
thus
you can say that the secret dynamic of
capitalism is just revealed is you know
in in in the idea of the vampire because
vampires right they are um
they have they express an infinite
desire
uh if you think about it vampires
kill their victims their victims turn
into vampires and um if that were really
the case i mean every vampire universe
has to fix this problem right because if
everybody
turns into a vampire then everybody's
gonna be vampires in no time vampires
will increase geometrically uh so you
have this potential for you know this
infinite absolute growth which will
destroy the the society it feeds off of
right away um and you have vampires
totally calculating and rational but
driven by a desire which is both
completely unlimited and unreasonable
and expansive
um and also for that very reason can't
be totally fulfilled so there's this
like insane profit motive draw a need to
expand driving the rational calculating
you know corporate um or rational
economic actor and that is the sort of
contradiction of capitalism and the
vampire embodies it in the guise of the
aristocrat who was the predecessor which
capitalism was supposed to have
overthrown but
couldn't really do